---
layout: post
title: Men Like These
date: '2006-04-05T22:25:00.000-05:00'
author: Jabell
tags:
- Theologians
modified_time: '2007-03-31T18:47:01.332-05:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-19739956.post-114429496688926735
blogger_orig_url: http://theabellsix.blogspot.com/2006/04/men-like-these.html
---

I know that seminary professors do not make the top-fifty-most-famous-people edition of your favorite tabloid; however, it is amazing to me how many truly amazing men I have had the chance to meet since coming to Minneapolis.<br /><br />Everyone needs a hero, and of course, John Piper is mine.  However, I have several other heroes who are all of the same ilk: extremely brilliant, bible-saturated, God-fearing, Christ-exalting, and well seminary professors.  In the last year and a half, I have met most of my heroes.  John Piper in August 2004, Tom Steller in October 2004, Tom Schreiner and Wayne Grudem in November 2005, and Grudem again in March 2006.  <br /><br />I am also finding new heroes since we have been here.  For instance, Sam Storms has become a hero.  He is brilliant and exalts Christ.  Get this, he also asked his future wife to marry him on their first date.  They have been married for 34 years.  He seems like a down-home country boy, but his alter-ego has taught systematic theology at Wheaton College (which is the Harvard of evangelical institutions.)  In May I will get to meet Dr. Douglas Moo, who was a professor at Trinity Evangelical Divinity school and is now heading up the doctoral program at Wheaton.<br /><br />(I hope you all know that I am not writing this to drop names or sound cool.  On the contrary, I am like a kid in the candy store who can't wait to tell everyone what he as seen!)<br /><br />Last night, was definately a highlight.  I was able to listen to a lecture by and shake hands with <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Don_Carson">Donald A. Carson</a>.  He isn't as well known as Wayne Grudem, maybe, but he is an incredible man.<br /><br />Now, forgive me for being so excited about all these men.  I am more excited about Jesus Christ.  But the thing about these men is that they point me to Christ in ways that few other mere mortals can do.  They have such amazing grasps of the languages, and history and, most importantly, the Bible itself that they make it come alive.  To listen to them both thrills me and depresses me.  It thrills me because they shine light in areas that had only been darkness; and it depresses me because I don't think I could ever have the wisdom, knowledge, or insight that they have.<br /><br />I pray for that often.  I want to be able to teach like them.  I believe that God has called us to Minnesota to teach me how to teach.  And I have been blessed to sit at the feet of men like these.