---
layout: post
title: Worship?
date: '2008-08-25T22:45:00.006-05:00'
author: Jabell
tags:
- Affections
- Culture
modified_time: '2008-08-27T09:34:02.191-05:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-19739956.post-39790105995270394
blogger_orig_url: http://theabellsix.blogspot.com/2008/08/worship.html
---

I stumbled upon a church website near my home town the other day.  Here is how they described their worship:<br /><blockquote>At Journey we believe that connecting with our Savior through corporate worship is essential to our spiritual walk. We strive to    provide a themed service that revolves around the scripture presented    each week; incorporating drama, movie clips, contemporary worship,    secular songs and symbols - all to communicate the good news of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.</blockquote>I was also pointed to a quote from John Owen by a guest blogger on <a href="http://theologica.blogspot.com/2008/08/my-last-word-to-owen.html">Justin Taylor</a>'s blog:<br /><blockquote>It is an innate acknowledged principle that the soul of man will not keep up cheerfully unto the worship of God unless it has a discovery of a beauty and comeliness in it.  Hence, when men had lost all spiritual sense and savor of the things of God, to supply the want that was in their own souls, they invented outwardly pompous and gorgeous ways of worship, in images, paintings, pictures, and I know not what carnal ornaments; which they have called "The beauties of holiness!" [Ps. 110:3].  Thus much, however, was discovered therein, that the mind of man must see a beauty, a desirableness in the things of God's worship, or it will not delight in it; aversation will prevail.  Let, then, the soul labor to acquaint itself with the spiritual beauty of obedience, of communion with God, and of all duties of immediate approach to him, that it may be rifled with delight in them.  (<span style="font-style: italic;">Overcoming Sin and Temptation</span>, John Owen, eds. Kelly Kapic and Justin Taylor, pg. 269-270)</blockquote>