---
layout: post
title: Psalm 25
date: '2009-02-05T11:16:00.001-06:00'
author: Jabell
tags:
- Psalms
- Bible
modified_time: '2009-02-05T11:21:20.324-06:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-19739956.post-7636091417019601941
blogger_orig_url: http://theabellsix.blogspot.com/2009/02/psalm-25.html
---

1     To you, O LORD, I lift up my soul.<br />2     O my God, in you I trust;<br />        let me not be put to shame;<br />        let not my enemies exult over me.<br />3     Indeed, none who wait for you shall be put to shame;<br />        they shall be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous.<br /><br />4     Make me to know your ways, O LORD;<br />        teach me your paths.<br />5     Lead me in your truth and teach me,<br />        for you are the God of my salvation;<br />        for you I wait all the day long.<br /><br />6     Remember your mercy, O LORD, and your steadfast love,<br />        for they have been from of old.<br />7     Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions;<br />        according to your steadfast love remember me,<br />        for the sake of your goodness, O LORD!<br /><br />8     Good and upright is the LORD;<br />        therefore he instructs sinners in the way.<br />9     He leads the humble in what is right,<br />        and teaches the humble his way.<br />10     All the paths of the LORD are steadfast love and faithfulness,<br />        for those who keep his covenant and his testimonies.<br /><br />11     For your name’s sake, O LORD,<br />        pardon my guilt, for it is great.<br />12     Who is the man who fears the LORD?<br />        Him will he instruct in the way that he should choose.<br />13     His soul shall abide in well-being,<br />        and his offspring shall inherit the land.<br />14     The friendship of the LORD is for those who fear him,<br />        and he makes known to them his covenant.<br />15     My eyes are ever toward the LORD,<br />        for he will pluck my feet out of the net.<br /><br />16     Turn to me and be gracious to me,<br />        for I am lonely and afflicted.<br />17     The troubles of my heart are enlarged;<br />        bring me out of my distresses.<br />18     Consider my affliction and my trouble,<br />        and forgive all my sins.<br /><br />19     Consider how many are my foes,<br />        and with what violent hatred they hate me.<br />20     Oh, guard my soul, and deliver me!<br />        Let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in you.<br />21     May integrity and uprightness preserve me,<br />        for I wait for you.<br /><br />22     Redeem Israel, O God,<br />        out of all his troubles.