---
layout: post
title: Last Saturday's Barbecue
date: '2011-04-09T22:09:00.000-05:00'
author: Jabell
tags:
- Barbecue
- Food
modified_time: '2011-04-09T22:09:12.289-05:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-19739956.post-2583328194008461049
blogger_orig_url: http://theabellsix.blogspot.com/2011/04/last-saturdays-barbecue.html
---

I was hungry last Saturday. Usually when I’m hungry that means I want to make something that would taste good. Well, that has turned out to be the main reason I grill. The solution for last Saturday’s problem was a grilled chicken sandwich concoction.<br /><br />Since I was really hungry, I decided to grill two things at the same time. One was the buffalo wings I have mentioned <a href="http://theabellsix.blogspot.com/2011/02/buffalo-barbecue-wings.html">before</a>. The other was what I call chicken cordon bleu, but I have no idea if that is an accurate title.<br /><br />I prepared 25 chicken wings with olive oil, kosher salt, black pepper, and a bit of cayenne pepper and put them in the fridge. I got the barbecue out, set it up, and lit the chimney with only about 3/4 the normal amount of briquettes. I knew that I needed only a medium heat fire, so no sense in using more Kingsford than needed.<br /><br />While the fire was getting ready, I prepared the chicken breasts. I was hungry for wings and my chicken sandwich, but Wendy informed me that she wanted caesar salad with chicken. Three completely separate dinners? How to do that?<br /><br />The wings were already started and easy enough to do. I decided to do double duty for the caesar salad and sandwiches by preparing the chicken breasts the same for each. I made a paste by mixing equal parts dijon mustard with olive oil, then added chili powder and black pepper. I smothered this paste all over eight chicken breasts and let them sit until the fire was ready.<br /><br />I poured out the briquettes from the chimney and arranged the fire in the grill for two-zone heat. Then I grilled all the wings and breasts over medium heat with the lid closed as much as possible and only turning everything once.<br /><br />I wrapped a bunch of bacon in foil and threw it on the grill when I pulled off the chicken. By this time the grill was at low heat, but it was enough to cook the bacon while I made the wings sauce. Wendy cut up a bunch of romaine lettuce and Chase set the table.<br /><br />Once the bacon was done, we all prayed and began adding food to our plates. Wendy cut up some of the dijon-mustardy chicken into her caesar salad. Amazingly the hint of dijon on the chicken added a subtle taste to the caesar salad. Quite good.<br /><br />For my chicken cordon bleu sandwich, I put a chicken breast on some tuscan bread, added bacon and swiss cheese. Then I slathered some dijon mustard on one side of the bread and toasted it all in the oven.<br /><br />It was excellent. Sorry I don't have any pictures. You will just have to trust me.<br /><br />By the way, if you are an astute reader, you will notice how much dijon mustard I used in preparing last Saturday's dinner. I am really enjoying dijon mustard lately and have found it be a very tasty ingredient.<br /><br />If you read this far, you are either my mother, or a very nice person. Or both, of course. Hi, mom! But your main reward for reading this far, is to understand why I attempted to barbecue what we had <i>tonight</i>. Since my concocted sandwiches last week were a success, we tried to make panini sandwiches worthy of competition with Paneras.